#857 Add a API quickstart page under the (to be added) API section (#858)
rancher/rancher-docs: docs/api/quickstart.md

---
title: API Quick Start Guide
---

> You can access Rancher's resources through the Kubernetes API. This guide will help you get started on using this API as a Rancher user.

Author: Confirmed from William that it should be "Rancher Kubernetes API" or "RKAPI" for short

  ```bash
  kubectl delete -f project.yaml
  ```

  **B. If you used `generateName`**:

    Replace `$PROJECT_NAME` with the randomly generated name of the project displayed by Kubectl after you created the project.

    ```bash
    kubectl delete project $PROJECT_NAME -n local
    ```

## Specifying CA Certs

To ensure that your tools can recognize Rancher's CA certificates, most setups require additional modifications to the above template.

1. In the upper left corner, click **☰ > Global Settings**. 
2. Find and copy the value in the `ca-certs` field.
3. Save the value in a file named `rancher.crt`.
4. The following commands will convert `rancher.crt` to base64 output,  trim all new-lines, and update the cluster in the kubeconfig with the certificate, then finishing by removing the `rancher.crt` file:

  ```bash
  export KUBECONFIG=$PATH_TO_RANCHER_KUBECONFIG
  kubectl config set clusters.rancher.certificate-authority-data $(cat rancher.crt | base64 -i - | tr -d '\n')
  rm rancher.crt
  ```
5. (Optional) If you use self-signed certificatess that aren't trusted by your system, you can set the insecure option in your kubeconfig with kubectl:

>   :::warning 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :::danger
```

  This option shouldn't be used in production as it is a security risk.

  :::

  ```bash
  export KUBECONFIG=$PATH_TO_RANCHER_KUBECONFIG
  kubectl config set clusters.rancher.insecure-skip-tls-verify true
  ```

>   If your Rancher instance is proxied by another service, you must extract the certificate that the service is using, and add it to the kubeconfig file, as demonstrated above.

Reviewer: I don't think this is should be a subtext of step 5, but more of a `6. (Optional) If your Rancher...`. @MbolotSuse can you confirm?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if I agree. If there were a new set of instructions I might agree, but this is really just saying "If you are using a proxy, you need to get the cert from the proxy and not the settings page". I think the flow would also look a bit awkward, in the proxy case you would just start at step 3 after getting the cert.

Reviewer: Gotcha, but it should be moved out of step 5 correct?

Reviewer 2: I think marty's suggestion is the best that I can think of. Really this is just a note that this section doesn't apply in proxy scenarios.

---
title: API Quick Start Guide
---

> Rancher's resources can be accessed through the Kubernetes API. This guide will help you get started on using this API (from your client of choice) as a Rancher user.

Author: ```suggestion
You can access Rancher's resources through the Kubernetes API. This guide will help you get started on using this API as a Rancher user.
```

> The Rancher API is a programatic interface for your upstream and downstream clusters. This guide will help get you started on using the API from your client of choice.

Reviewer 2: I think this statement is a bit inaccurate/misleading. We want to emphasize that this isn't a special/custom api, it's the kubernetes api which allows access to Rancher resources, which are kubernetes CRDs. This is important because there are a wide variety of tools (such as `client-go`, `kubectl`) which are compatible with the kubernetes api, and those tools should work with this approach.

```suggestion
Rancher's resources can be accessed through the Kubernetes API. This guide will help you get started on using this API (from your client of choice) as a Rancher user.
```

> The Rancher API is a programatic interface for your upstream and downstream clusters. Anything you can do through the Rancher GUI can also be performed through the commandline, using the Rancher API. This guide will help get you started on using the API from your client of choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rancher API is a programatic interface for your upstream and downstream clusters. This guide will help get you started on using the API from your client of choice.
```

The second sentence won't be true for the initial API release since only subset of the CRDs will be available.

Author: Resolved in https://github.com/rancher/rancher-docs/pull/858/commits/aa74b3197d6945bdb7ff03039c6773c25a4d9020

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Config
    clusters:
    - name: "rancher"
      cluster:
        server: "$SERVER_URL"
        # Uncomment the following line if your server is using self-signed certs. This option is not recommended for production
        # insecure-skip-tls-verify: true

    users:
    - name: "rancher"
      user:
        token: "$API_KEY"

    contexts:
    - name: "rancher"
      context:
        user: "rancher"
        cluster: "rancher"

    current-context: "rancher"
    ```

You can use this file with any compatible tool, such as kubectl or [client-go](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go). For a quick demo, see the [kubectl example](#api-kubectl-example). 

For more information on handling more complex certificate setups, see [Specifying CA Certs](#specifying-ca-certs).

For more information on available kubeconfig options, see the [upstream documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/).

## API kubectl Example

1. Set your KUBECONFIG environment variable to the kubeconfig file you just created:

  ```bash
  export KUBECONFIG=$(pwd)/kubeconfig.yaml
  ```

  :::tip

>   Use `kubectl explain` to view the available fields for projects, or complex sub-fields of resources:

Reviewer 2: It might be good to add a note here that not all resources are going to have detailed output - only the ones that have been migrated to the public api so far.
